Tools : Alteryx was used to establish a connection to the database. Since the relevant table only contained a few columns, I stopped using Alteryx and switched to Tableau to build out the remaining calculations and queries.
Process : A key concept was the identification of active and churned users. I further segmented active users into subcategories based on a number of criteria. The query that was used to generate this calculation is below;

This resulted in four user categories, which were used to segment the user base throughout the dashboard. 
Please note : The MakeDate YYMMDD calculated field was created as the source date column was represented in the year 2017. For the sake of the analysis, I therefore assumed today’s date was June 06, 2017.
A further key concept that emerged in the analysis was a user cohort - defined as the amount of time (represented in days) that has elapsed since the user first signed up for the service. My working hypothesis was that this was a useful way to categorize an individuals behaviour and interaction with the platform.
Packaging : The final deliverable is a Tableau dashboard (.twbx file). This will work on any machine with Tableau Desktop or Tableau Reader installed. Tableau Reader is a light version of Tableau Desktop that will allow you to interact with the dashboard with some of the full features removed.
Recommendations : The active customer base is largely made up of a core group of weekly user's who have been interacting with the platform for over a year. These users make extensive use of the product, reflected with an average of 60 tasks per session (considerably higher than all other segments). Across all user segments, there was little sign of a spike in recent product adoption, with small / moderate customers numbers in the left tail of the customer lifetime distribution. There is a notable increase in product engagement (reflected via task creation and tasks per session) around the 130 / 140 day mark. Marketing content strategy recommendations include a tailored outbound strategy based on the length of time a user has been making use of the product, as well as their frequency of engagement with the platform.
